Imagine if you could use Hermes Agent
100% privately and free on your own
computer. In this video, I'm going to
show you exactly how to power Hermes
Agent 100% locally. So, you can build
and use your Hermes operating system
from $0 and have everything completely
private with no limitations, rate
limits, and work anywhere in the world
with no internet. And I'm also going to
cover a brand new Hermes update that
makes this even easier, even if you're a
complete beginner. And if you're new,
I'm Jack. I built and sold my left tech
starter with a gazillion customers. Now
I build my own AI companies and I share
on this channel the stuff that actually
works. So if you haven't already, grab
that beautiful coffee and let's jump
straight in. So Hermes Agent is the
world's number one AI agent assistant
right now. And with Alama, we can own
our own intelligence. And as somebody
who recently scored a perfect 100 on an
IQ test, I've been speaking a lot about
intelligence recently. Now the idea here
is it's a private AI and we're going to
own it on your own machine. Now one core
concept that you have to understand
before we even get started here is that
local AI is the direction travel. It is
the future. Jensen Huang at Nvidia
conference very very recently had this
to say that everybody who uses computers
today as a tool, every engineer, every
creative artist will need an AI
supercomputer. By the way, and if you
watch the end of this video, you're
going to know exactly how to run Hermes
agent on your phone from anywhere um
completely private and locally hosted.
Now, the idea here with local AI is that
it runs on your laptop. Your data stays
in the room and you never get a monthly
bill because it's 100% private. You
physically own it. Everything and the
data is not going to open AI or
anthropic. It's completely yours. Now,
if you think about the analogy that
Jensen used here is that in a phone in
the 1990s, a beautiful decade to be born
if you ask me, the whole purpose and
concept of the phone was that we would
basically just make calls. And I'm told
uh with a great degree of confidence
that people used to have these kind of
bricks on the side of their heads
walking around. Whereas today we
effectively do everything except make
phone calls. It probably counts at least
in my case probably 2% of my actual
phone use is on calls. And Jensen's
philosophy here which I think is really
interesting obviously Jensen being the
CEO of Nvidia is that today the one
thing you don't do with your phone is
make phone calls. You just about do
everything else. his um direction and
philosophy which he believes very
strongly and is backing Nvidia's future
on is the idea that the same will be
true with your computer that we will all
have these supercomputers. So
understanding exactly how to go local
and how that connects with your agent
and claude code is going to be an
incredibly powerful skill and I'm going
to show you all that with no fluff in
this video. So here's the thing. The
idea is we're going to have a Hermes
operating system which is your entire
world in one place. Now we can speak to
Hermes. We can run our beautiful Hermes
operating system that shows our entire
memory system uh and covers everything
that we possibly may want to use. We can
chat with it directly, see our
connections, come down here, even look
at goals. We can build personas and
skills. We can even connect this to
GitHub, do beautiful things, see our
information, get skills, and even view
documents in a beautiful configured way.
This is the power of the operating
system, which is really cool. Now, the
idea of why we want to do a private
operating system is going to be really
interesting. So the idea here is that we
have one home for every app. We can see
our usage everywhere. We can schedule
and run things. We read documents. It
remembers what it learns and it
proactively comes back and suggests how
you can be better based on the
conversations you've had. But crucially,
it actually connects everything
together. So it isn't just about Hermes.
Sometimes we're talking to chat GBT and
other times we're talking to Claude
code. So being able to see and
understand our entire AI world in one
location is really really really
important. And crucially with private
you're not tied in to any vendor. You
literally you're basically running
everything you want to locally. Now
interestingly Hermes have just released
a desktop app and I'm going to show you
exactly how that actually makes one
thing easier in this video. When you
should use it, when you shouldn't, and
what this thing actually physically
means. Now before we build up, we have
to understand why we're actually doing
this in the first place. So the cheat
code essentially is ownership. So the
idea here is that your data never leaves
the home or if you're a business, all of
the data, all the models are running
directly on your own computer. That's
one of the reasons why I really like
running it locally, not on a VPS for
several different reasons. I'm not
sponsored to sell you some kind of VPS.
I tell you what I do. I run it locally.
This is what I tell my people. Run it
locally. I just think it's a lot better
way to do that. The idea here is your
data never leaves your home. No internet
needed. No company watching. It's all
yours. And basically whether you're
16,000 ft underground or you're on a
SpaceX rocket ship makes no difference.
Okay? Works without the internet. No
company gets your data uh to the extent
to which you think that analyzing it is
is completely your call. But they don't
get it anyway. No brain limits ever.
It's free forever. There's no gatekeeper
and you own it outright, which is
fantastic. So the idea here is that we
want to stop, so to speak, renting our
intelligence. Now, there are a few
interesting trade-offs with this. I'm
going to get into this video, but the
idea here is that you're going to have
it all running perfectly local. Okay?
Again, it's completely free to do. Um,
the top labs when open are usually,
typically speaking, we see in markets,
if you're behind, you just open source
the thing and push it. And a laptop now
beats old GPU. Now, just to put this
into perspective, is that the because
you might be thinking, Jack, what about
performance? The best local model today
is about one year behind wherever we're
currently at. So, for example, the best
local model today is as good as the best
model that existed in around mid 2025.
So that would be Claude Sonnet 4 just to
give you some perspective. That's how
good they are and how close they are
behind current models. Our expectations
just change so quickly. So these aren't
exactly, you know, caveman basically
running around in our laptops. And what
we're going to be doing in this video is
going to be using alarm to essentially
unlock everything for us. So we have the
uh metered way of doing AI, which is
maybe using chat GBT, OpenAI, uh Cloud,
etc. in cloud services. Just fancy way
of saying that we're just running it on
their service, their infrastructure. But
with our powerful, handsome llama over
here, he has the keys to unlock Quen,
Deepseek, uh, Gemma, Mistral, loads of
these kind of interesting open source
models that we can do. We can download
them once, run them for free, forever,
and nothing ever leaves our machine. So,
the very first thing I'd love you to do
is head over to this beautiful website.
Come over and just click on download.
This actually sits like an app and you
can when you get these things literally
just chat to your models there if you
want to. But, of course, we're getting
connected to Hermes and we can chat to
anything. So, we're going to come down
and download that for Mac OS. And once
we've done that, I need you to open up a
terminal. So, that's command spacebar
and type in terminal. And the terminal
will appear. And then effectively all
we're going to do is literally come over
here and just copy this information like
so. And then when I bring the terminal
up, this will just install the latest
version of Alama onto our computer. You
can see all the code is going to be in
the background, which is fantastic. And
if this sounds like I'm actually
speaking Icelandic right now, you can go
ahead and grab this code full course.
I'll put a link for it down below. It
takes you from foundation setups,
building websites, power features,
memory systems, Hermes stuff I have
never covered on YouTube. It is the best
course I've ever created. You unlock all
of this and you also get the entire cla
code Hermes operating system immediately
as well. I'll put a link down below for
you so you can grab that if you find
that beneficial. Now on the terminal,
this is now fully done. What we want to
do is open up the app, search for
command spacear, and type in. And he
will appear when we say his name. Cool.
So this is the app. So if you wanted to
at this point you could just talk to
your model privately and effectively you
can literally just click this download
button like Gemma fork whatever it is
and you'd be ready to go but the first
thing that we need to do is understand
what is the best model for you to look
at and I've looked at alternatives to
Alarm and it comes to the free space I
just find it easiest to use. Now, if you
click on the app, if you're on a
MacBook, the top left, you come down to
about this Mac. You'll then get some
information. All you're going to do is
literally screenshot this guy by coming
up like so. And we can literally ask
Hermes, hey, what is the best local
model for us to run for this thing here?
And the best way to show you that might
be actually using the Hermes app itself.
So, if you come over to this website,
which is Hermes agent news research, you
click on desktop app, come down, and
what we can do is download the Mac OS
here. What's cool is I haven't done it
on this computer so we can go through
the entire process together and you can
just get an overview of what it is and
how this fits into the stack. So you go
we click on it and then we double click
on Hermes and she does pop up. We're
happy for that to happen. Click on open.
Install Hermes. Although we've already
got it which is fine. Now this Hermes
app installation step is completely
optional. You can just chat to it in
Telegram if you want to. I just want to
show you what Hermes have done so you
understand it. Come down and click
launch Hermes. This rocket here icon by
the way is classic when we when you vibe
code stuff. I've noticed it kind of like
always pops up. Now guys, when I
downloaded it, it could not launch the
desktop app. If that happens, it is
because your Hermes is not up to date.
So, all we're going to do is come down
and do Hermes update inside terminal.
Um, man, you feel like you're in the
matrix sometimes doing in the terminal.
It's basically just a way to talk to
your computer. Dead straightforward.
Come down and we want to restore those
changes, which is cool. And send that
one off. Beautiful. So, now it's
complete. If I come off this and just
rerun one more time, that should work
fantastically for us. Come down and
install. Beautiful. And then we have the
Hermes dashboard. So, pretty much we can
do is create a new session here. Click
on new session and then I'm l going to
come down and just say hey and you'll
see can we start a conversation and it's
just exactly the same thing as talking
to it on your um you know your actual
telegram. The only difference here it
realistically is think of the Hermes
desktop app and the reason I've done a
dedicated video on it is because for me
basically at the moment in its current
configuration it's just a um less
intimidating way of using the terminal
which I think is a wonderful thing and
the guys are crushing it. So huge job to
those guys. Now, what I'm going to do is
give it a message. Hey, there based on
the specifications of my MacBook. What
do you think would be the best
performance model that I could grab from
Oama to download and run a model on my
computer? Okay. And then going to send
in the image. And then we send that one
off and let Hermes work its magic. Cool
thing just if you are going to be using
this desktop app is you can come down to
here and you can actually pick the
models that you've installed. And I
think what is really cool is you can
kind of pick like a minimal, low,
medium, high max, which I think is quite
a nice one then. So top recommendations,
Quen 33 32B or Quen 532B is best overall
performance right now. Excellent speed
and quality. So let's try that one.
Let's say we want something speed. What
and all we're going to do is literally
copy this like so. Okay. Then basically
to run it, you're going to basically
open up terminal one more time. So come
up to terminal like so. And you're going
to give it two commands. And basically
you can say, hey, what commands do I
need to run to install insert the blank?
So the first one for us is going to be
alarm basically quan 3, which is going
to be fantastic. And it's going to pull
down the manifest for us. And you can
see the whole thing is literally
downloading. If you want to check out on
the website, by the way, and come check
out models, you can do that as well.
Have a nice little browse. And it's
really cool. I love the competition in
the open- source market. And again,
remember, it's as good as models a year
a year behind. So, a year is not that
much time when you really think about
it. It's just incredible to see how much
they're actually developing. So, this is
downloading this puppy here. And take
about 3 minutes, then we're ready to
rock and roll. And just while that's
downloading, one cool thing you can do.
So if I come down here and I say, "Hey,"
and I begin a conversation, I can if I
want to what we call branch something
out into a new chat. So if I'm building
on something in particular, I can come
down here, click on this, click on
branch and new chat. Okay? And then now
it forks, which means like let's say
that you're working on a project like I
don't know to grow your LinkedIn or
something and you think actually I
really want to do two things now. One is
I want to build strategy and the second
thing I want to do is do some DM
outreach. Fork the chat, same contact,
two different windows. I think kind
basically the strategy that they're
building here is essentially to kind of
be the use any model platform. That's
kind of a direction traveler going in
and it's cool they're building out the
artifacts and you can save it. One of
the reasons why I kind of built out our
operating system this way and I do think
the future is 100% configurable is
because you can actually just like add
different things like I can click on
this and see it. I can actually come
down and actually see the images as I'm
actually pulling them out as I go.
Right? Like this is an overview it did
for me and you can edit it. So really
interesting and as you see here this is
now completely finished. So we need to
give it a second instruction. Now that
code basically would be to chat to it.
So if I ever want to chat to it in the
terminal I run this code here but in
reality guys who's chatting to it in the
terminal unless you've got a huge
Windows laptop and you're just like
completely nerding out. In reality we
can come over to Alarm and you'll see in
Alarma that this mysterious Quen model
has mystically appeared. So if I come
down here I'll be able to select this
here which is Quen 3 30B just means
billions of parameters which is
fantastic. And I'm going to go ahead and
just shut this one down so we can chat
to it in a cooler interface that can
say, "Hey there. Um, give me three
interesting facts about color theory and
design." And immediately we're getting
all the thinking, which is fantastic.
And by the way, if you're looking for
what I'm doing for speech dictation,
just tell what it is. I'm using
something called glider.com, which is
company that we founded, fastest in the
world, super private. So if you want to
check it out, I'll put a link down below
with some goodies so you can have a
little play around with that. We
freaking love it. And look at this. This
is completely guys, how freaking how
fast was that? Number one. And how cool
was that? Again, we went for a bit of a
faster one, but now anything that we we
talked to Quen about is running on your
computer. Think about that. It's
literally on your I have never had so
much fun than running something locally,
which is sick. But then it leads on to
the next question, which is how do we
get it from the computer into Hermes
agent? And so Hermes requires a local
model to have 64,000
tokens in its context window. The one we
just downloaded doesn't. So what we
effectively then want to ask the model
effectively is what can I run on my
computer that has enough context. I
asked Claude this exact question and
essentially it said you want to grab the
Quen 3 coder 30B. Now the great thing is
the thing we just downloaded we can use
on a computer for anything for tasks
that don't require more than 25 to
30,000 words. But due to the nature of
the way that the Hermes agent works and
its context on its memory, it needs that
64k. So we're going to download it and
then we can connect it directly to
Hermes agent. And now that's complete.
We can see the Quen 3 kod 64K has
arrived and we can chat to it within you
know alarm and also it's here right here
with the Hermes agent and you can see in
the bottom right corner Quen 3 coda 64K
so now we can literally chat to it and
do various different things with Hermes
completely locally and private on your
computer and this then raises a really
important question for us to understand
here which is essentially how good is
local realistically like how good is it
actually well if you think about that
we're one year behind these are the
benchmarks marks the extent to which you
back and believe these 88.6 for
basically called Opus 4.8 and again you
can make the argument that optimizing
benchmarks I get that quen which we're
running 74 so is it the absolute premier
model no but you are trading off on
privacy performance and price and bear
in mind given the fact we're 12 only 12
months behind the best models I can tell
you in the future within one year's time
we will have a model like cloud opus 4.8
Okay, that you can run completely
locally on your computer. Now,
obviously, if you have some of the
bigger, more powerful models, your
computer might go a little bit slower.
It might take two business days to go
from here to here just to bring your
mouse cursor across. So, it's not for
work that we want a snappy answer,
especially if you're going for a big
model, but it absolutely has a really
important place in our ecosystem. And if
you take for example if you imagine you
split all the work you do say for
example this laptop right with my
beautiful spring spangle on it
represents 100% of the work you do with
Hermes agent and you chop that up into
percentages there'll be some things
where like I actually want a private
model that doesn't fall into the hands
of any company that I can talk to and
it's amazing for that sort of stuff and
it's only getting better. So
transparently it's free forever $0 for
token. It is though only as fast as your
machine. Like I say, like if it's really
slow, it's going to take ages to move
across. Now, it's total privacy. Data
never leaves your computer. That's it.
You could be 16 ft underground. You
could be high in the sky. You could be
on Mars. It doesn't matter. And I'll
tell you, I was flying from Dubai, a
beautiful place where I live right now
to LA. And I remember like the internet
at one point wasn't working or like I
hadn't set up yet. And I was just using
on my computer. And it felt really
freaking cool. It's like so fun to be
able to ask these questions locally on
your laptop without the need for
anything else. It's really freaking
sick. I absolutely love it. Now, when it
comes to peak performance, the Frontier
models are still winning. They're still
the best ones. They do the hardest jobs
and they're great for those kinds of
things. So, the philosophy that I'm
progressing and I encourage you to think
about because I'm not so I'm always
going to keep it real with you guys. I'm
never going to say, "Oh, we're always
private. We're always local." No. Like,
we bring in the best thing for the job.
And if something's no longer the best
thing, I'll tell you, I didn't. It's no
longer the thing about something else.
We, you know, we're not like ideological
with this stuff. We just follow what
works. That's that's the whole ethos of
the channel. Stuff that works and is fun
and just you can build anything. Now,
the idea with this toggling your privacy
thing is we have vault mode. Okay. So,
things like maybe private data, health
stuff, client information. We're going
to go vault mode with that. And the cool
thing is we can actually dynamically get
Hermes agent to bring that in. I can
say, "Hey, um, just run up my local, my
private, send this to the private
model." Okay, go do this over here if
you want to. Very freaking cool. Then we
have connected mode, which effectively
is performance mode, right? Give a
little bit more detail on it. When would
I use private vault mode? Well, client
data, finances, health notes, uh, your
code base in proprietary IP.
Interesting, right? Like maybe we're
building a OpenAI 2.0 and we can't have
someone knowing about it. That would be
a private thing. It's offline. You're on
a plane. You're off grid. Um, doesn't
matter. You can do it. like my editor
joke sometimes like the electricity went
out and he had a private model. He could
still like think about things which is
really cool. 24/7 background agents all
day. They can be running for you 24/7 at
absolutely $0 which is code for good
news. And then we've got the cloud. So
when we want the best answer um quick
one from your phone, fresh web info
private search pipeline when raw quality
beats privacy. And by the way, don't
feel bad at all if you download a model
and it's just makes your computer too
slow. That's cool cuz you need a little
bit of headroom above what you download.
So, it's fine to download, delete, find
models that you think are good. Have
This is supposed to be fun. Like, this
isn't supposed to be I got to get this.
It's a fun thing. It's It's good. It's
like has a lot of utility and it's also
freaking fun. So, have a bit of time
with it. Now, the idea here, you're
going to run your business. Now, we are
in a year's time going to have a model
like Opus 4.8 that's going to run
completely on your computer. We just
just based on where we're at compared to
local private. So, learning the skills
that you learn right now in this video
is going to put you so freaking far
ahead, it's unfreaking believable. And
you'll have these in offices, these
private company brains running with
client data. Everything is kind of, you
know, basically boxed off and the cloud
is outside. So we had this move,
everyone going to the cloud. Now the
cloud is old. Now we're going local.
Local is the future. It's a big big big
trend. Expect to see this blow up. And
you've learned the schools exactly how
to do that. The idea is that client data
is always going to stay ours. One
private agent for the entire team and it
works in a regulated environment. In
glider for example, we are going through
sock 2 compliance, GDPR compliance, um
ISO 27,000, all that sort of stuff
because compliance is freaking
absolutely critical and super duper
important. I can tell you now when we're
building these things out, having these
local models does make a significant
difference and it's great and really
important for regulated work. The idea
being we can own our intelligence. But
it does bring us on to one interesting
question and that's that going private
is one thing, but if you don't have an
operating system, you're not unlocking
the full capabilities of this incredible
technology. So, the next thing I'm going
to do is set that up by watching this
video right